“A Disaster or a Solution to Come” (Resurrection
Time)
Public Program
Caxton Hall, London, UK
August 16, 1982
These days, when you read newspapers, you
meet people, you get the feeling that everybody
is waiting for a disaster, or for some sort
of a solution, that has to come.
This feeling that comes to us is also something
very innate, something from our unconscious,
because the situation that we see around seems
to be quite dangerous.
Not that we get upset with the financial problems
or with other mundane type of problems that
we have had, but what upsets people is – that
human beings have become just like machines.
They’re running mad.
They’re running morning till evening.
They have no time for each other.
There is no feeling sometimes to understand
each other, and, as if we are all becoming
insensitive to each other’s problem.
Apart from that, those people who are intelligent
and loving people, feel that people at the
helm of affairs do not feel responsible for
the humanity at large.
Then the poverty and then other problems,
which are gross, still they bother us too
much – one side, the affluence, another
side the poverty; one side the scientific
approach to life, the other side what science
has created, things like atomic bombs.
All these create a kind of a confusion in
our mind.
Everybody seems to be confused.
They don’t know whether whatever they are
doing is right or wrong, whether they are
going to the right path or to the wrong path.
Very frustrated, disgusted, one feels sometimes,
and does not know why are we on this Earth.
Confusion is the first impression one gets
when one visits our world from outside.
People are absolutely confused, and also very
insecured, extremely insecure.
If you see the rich, they are insecured because
they have too much money.
The poor are insecure because they have no
money.
All kinds of insecurities work out a tremendous
world of confusion.
Now, let us see how we are created from amoeba
to this stage.
We have become human beings without understanding
anything about it, and are we to evolve more,
to achieve something higher, to \get out of
this confusion, or are we to be dissolved
with this confusion in our mind?
This confusion is important in a way.
If there is no confusion, we are not going
to seek any solution out of it, and that is
why people feel that some solution has to
come out.
We are confused because we have no absolute
values.
We have not felt the absolute values.
Somebody says, “To be honest is a very good
idea,” but we find that, “No, if we are
very honest it doesn’t pay.”
Some say to be devoted and dedicated and loyal
is the best policy, but no, it does not work
out that way.
But there must be something that decides whether
we are right or wrong.
That’s what we think; it has to be like
that.
After all, this whole creation was created
with such love and care, with such delicacy.
If you are a doctor you will see how beautifully
you are created inside, every nerve, how beautifully
it grew into a sensitive cell; how the whole
body was created, how these eyes were created
with such accuracy.
We see cameras and cameras in this world created
by us; no camera can be compared with our
eyes.
Such a tremendous machinery has been created
within us with such care, discarding many
others.
Many have gone out of the circulation of evolution,
and then, this man, the great personality
of a human being, came out of it.
For what?
To be confused?
To be upset?
To be insecured?
How can that be?
It’s not true.
It cannot be.
After all, why are we human beings?
God has made us with a purpose, no doubt about
it.
There is a purpose in giving us this kind
of a body, this erect body.
There is a purpose in everything that we have
today as human beings.
Even the confusion, as I said.
Today is the day for people to seek.
Thousands of people are seeking.
They are fed up with whatever they have been
doing – they are fed up with it.
They are not seeking out of fashion.
Many people think that it’s a fashion, they’re
a lost race and they are this and they are
that.
It’s not true.
There were never so many seekers as there
are today, and they are seeking.
Maybe they do not know what they are seeking,
but they are not satisfied with their state
of affairs, and they are seeking something
higher.
And that “higher” is the Absolute, is
the Absolute.
Now, this “higher,” if it is the Absolute,
everything must relate to it.
Absolute point means everything is related.
For example, if you have a one meter here,
if you say it is five meters, that means this
is five times than the gold rod you have got
in Paris which is called as “one meter.”
Everything has to be related to that absolute,
and that relationship then establishes the
relationship with each other.
For example, on the religious side if you
see, there have been so many religions, one
after another.
We had Judaism, Christianity, Hinduism, Sikhism,
Buddhism, Jainism, Islam – so many religions.
They all must relate to Absolute.
We must find out how many “meters” each
one of them are; where do they stand in relation
to this Absolute – has to be.
It cannot be just something, like people said
“Oh, we’ve got the Absolute, Mother, we
are realized souls, we are twice born.”
“Then how do you say?”
“Because I see a light in my head.”
What does that mean?
It is not absolute when you can see the light
as it is there.
If you faint also you might see a little light
short-circuiting there.
There could be some others who say “Yes,
I’ve got the Knowledge.”
“How?
What is it?”
“Because, Mother, I don’t think anymore.”
So I said, “You must be drunk.”
Everything that we seek has to be related
to everything else.
Otherwise solution won’t be there.
To find the absolute value of anything we
must know that there’s nothing else but
that.
That’s the only thing, that’s one, that’s
a unity; it cannot have a parallel.
Some people jump in the street and say that
“We’ve found the Last.”
Then why are you jumping?
Now, that absolute thing has to be something
that should come in your awareness if it is
a evolutionary process.
In our evolution, whatever we have achieved
has come in our awareness.
That means it should become a part and parcel
of our awareness, part and parcel of our awareness.
Like as I can see you, I can feel you, in
the same way you should be able to see, and
through that light we should be able to explain
each and every thing.
For example, in this room, if there is darkness
and I can’t see you, I don’t know who
is sitting where, what is the relationship
of everyone?
But when the light comes in, you immediately
know, that this gentleman is third on the
row, or that gentleman is fifth on the row.
Apart from that, you know what sort of a shape
and a color the person has.
Whatever could be seen through these eyes,
one can see if there is light.
But this light is not sufficient because this
we have already got it, there’s nothing
more in our awareness with that.
We have to think of a light, which gives us
a complete idea as to what is the relationship
between us and our Creator.
What is the relationship between all those
who came on this earth to tell us about that
relationship?
What is the relationship of human beings with
each other, with different countries, with
different people, with different faces, races
and creed?
What is the relationship between man and the
nature?
What is the relationship between man and all
the elements around?
Here we just hang in the air, we don’t know
if we have any relationship whatsoever with
the Sun.
He gives us light, but what about us?
Have we any control over the Sun, or not?
Is there any subtle connection between us
and Him, or not?
All these connections have to be established
in these absolute findings, otherwise that’s
not absolute.
We should not be satisfied with something
extremely cheap, which you can buy with money,
that’s the cheap thing – I think that’s
the cheapest thing – very easy to buy something
with money.
People may say “We have no money.”
It’s not the point, because those who have
money can buy.
But this must be something that cannot be
bought by money.
People don’t understand.
When I went to America first, they said “Mother
how are you saying that you can’t take money
for this?”
I mean, imagine, the absurdity.
Such an absurd thing they could not understand.
You cannot pay for it.
Now you cannot manage it also and maneuver
it.
If you could then it’s man-made.
It has to be something natural, spontaneous,
living, because man can’t do living work.
Otherwise you should not bother.
You should say “I am not bothered, I don’t
care for it.”
That’s how it should be, but we get very
much satisfied with something that’s absolutely
easily available to us, that is what we can
really pay for, or if we stand on our heads
we think we should get that.
I asked one gentleman, who used to stand on
his head every day, I said “Why are you
doing it?.”
He said “I’m seeking God.”
I said “What makes you think that by standing
on your head you’ll get to God?”
He says “Because none of the animals do
that, so to be a higher animal, I was thinking
if I would stand on my head, it would be a
better idea.”
But it can’t be, just think of it – some
sort of physical acrobat, I mean so many can
do it.
In the circus people do all kinds of things,
if you see them the way they jump onto a horses,
it’s surprising.
It’s not easy to do.
They acquire all kinds of techniques by which
they can jump onto a horse, walk on a little
string of wire, all kinds of things they can
do, but do you think that is something divine?
So, this absolute point has to be something
spontaneous, something living should come
in our awareness; must express in our awareness.
And when we talk that word “awareness,”
we must understand that human awareness itself
we have not understood.
The difference between us and animals is tremendous.
It’s tremendous.
They don’t understand so many things.
They don’t understand beauty, they don’t
understand insurance, they do not understand
many of these hangs-up that we have gathered.
So many odd things we have done, they don’t
understand.
Human beings have a capacity to harness the
nature for their own purpose, to use the nature
for their own purpose, which animals can’t
do.
Despite all that, we feel so powerless, so
helpless, and singled out.
But if this creation has any meaning, that
light has to come, that light has to work
out.
It must work.
But, now, as you have been already told about
the Kundalini, this instrument’s within
you, is there already waiting.
The time has come, the maturity it has reached,
that you have to have your realization – because
of that maturity in a human mind that you
are seeking, because you are so matured now,
that you can’t do without it.
Say, when you are a child, you don’t understand
many things, and then you grow up.
You grow up, reach a point, say at a point
where you understand the marriage, then you
want to marry.
Then you reach a point where you want to have
a house, you try to have a house.
But this maturity that is coming to us is
extremely subtle, many-sided, encompassing
many aspects of life, I should say all of
them.
It’s not only one side that is going to
mature.
It’s not that just few leaves are going
to show out from a growing tree.
It’s not only that some new branches are
going to shoot out.
It’s not that many flowers are going to
show.
It’s that the flowers have so matured now
that they have to become the fruit.
That maturity has come to us through our trial-error
method, our own.
This is done by human beings.
Animals did the same for their evolution,
and human beings also have done this, their
trial and error – again they make mistakes,
they try to correct it, again they try, and
again make mistakes.
That’s how we have matured now.
We have reached a stage of understanding the
beauty of balance in life.
We are trying to stabilize ourselves, and
the insecurity is working out – a negative
method of course, but a challenge, challenge
to your maturity, whether you are matured
or not, whether your seeking is true or not.
The maturity can be judged only when you are
there to become the fruit.
You have to become the fruit.
You have to become the Spirit.
You have to be the Spirit.
You have to be born again.
But many have said that, many are saying that.
They say that they are already reborn.
But what is the difference?
The difference is, one has an awareness, which
is collectively conscious, which is – he
has become – is the becoming, he’s not
just talking about it, telling about it; is
the becoming.
And the other is the one who just believes
into it.
“I believe….”
Which is this “I” that believes into something?
[I’m just asking you to sit down.]
Who believes, is the “I” which does not
know itself.
So just a faith of any kind, is not the real
faith unless and until it is a part of your
awareness.
“I believe in God,” – many people talk
as if they are obliging God by believing in
Him.
What does that mean?
“I believe in God,” so all right, you
must be having a balanced life, all right.
But just to believe, but one may ask, “Why?”
why to believe in God?
Why to have the balance, what is the need
to lead a life which is called so-called,
“righteous life”?
Enslaving yourself to these ideas – why?
One can ask a question of that kind, and many
are asking that question.
You have to balance if you have to ascend.
But, because of this confusion, one cannot
expect a very balanced life, because everybody
seems to be groping in the dark.
Then you can’t believe that the people are
absolutely balanced.
You can’t just think that way – that would
be wrong.
So they have to have a balance, and they have
to have an ascent.
To have the balance, people have tried lots
of things.
Thousands of years they talked of religion,
they talked of, sustenance, of Ten Commandments,
this thing, that thing; nothing worked out
with human beings.
Everybody jumped out of their balance.
So now there has to be a method that automatically
gives you a balance as well as a good ascent
and a happy landings into the Kingdom of God.
That has to happen.
Now, you are all built-in that way, this is
what it is, but again you don’t have that
faith in Me, neither in what we are saying.
Because again: “I believe in Mataji,”
there are many who finish with that.
You have to have faith in your Self, in your
Spirit, by experiencing it.
It’s a something, a dynamic thing that has
to happen within you – a tremendous thing.
It’s nothing something, just your mental
belief that, “Today we are communist, tomorrow
we are capitalist,” and third day something
else.
It’s something that has to become, again
I say “become,” and again become.
And that becoming is now.
The time has come.
This is the resurrection time; this is the
Last Judgment, believe it or not.
There is not going to be another time for
that.
This is the way we are going to be judged:
our maturity, our balance, our capacity.
Many people come to our meetings, few get
their realization, or many get their realization
– makes no difference to Me, to anyone or
to Sahaja Yog or to you.
Because if there are seeds which are just
sprouted and are wasted; they are wasted as
if they are not sprouted.
They do not grow.
They are just like any other seeds which have
not been touched by the Divine.
Even if you get realization, which is now
quite easy for people to get to, they are
for it, because the Divine is anxious, because
your Creator is anxious, to manifest itself,
but to settle down as a realized soul is difficult.
I have to tell you at the very outset that
if you have to mature into it you have to
understand yourself.
You must have your self-esteem.
If you just are here for a shopping, “Oh,
all right, let’s hear Mother also,” that’s
not the way it is going to work out.
If you are people of that caliber, then only
you can ascend.
There’s nothing else needed of you.
You may be a prime minister or you may be
a queen or you may be just a parlor maid,
makes no difference to the Divine.
You may be a socialist, communist or a capitalist,
makes no difference.
You may be this color, that color, makes no
difference.
But you have to have the caliber of a true
seeker, who is intelligent enough to see that
he has not come on this earth just to be wasted.
If you make many instruments and if they are
just wasted, they are not put to the mains,
they are good for nothing, they have very
loose connections – He’ll just say, “Cancel
all these.
Stop this factory.
There’s no use having any more creations.”
Only those who are matured enough, who have
self-esteem – even age, you’ll be surprised,
does not matter – I have seen people who
are eighty years of age could be very stupid,
and people who are very young, very small
children also, could be great.
So it is the inner quality of a person, his
maturity, that matters in Sahaj Yoga.
I know it is rather difficult to understand
that why, if it is Sahaja, if the Kundalini
rises so easily in us, why is it we take time
to establish ourselves?
The reason is very simple.
We are not simple people, we are not, we are
very complicated, we have complicated our
lives with so many problems.
Now, cancer is a disease which cannot be explained
by doctors.
We can explain it in Sahaj Yoga; is caused
by over-activity of the sympathetic nervous
system.
If you could soothe the over-activity of the
sympathetic nervous system you can cure cancer,
but say, those people who go to spiritualists,
those people who go to false gurus, those
people who indulge into black magic and other
activities of a negative nature, getting spirits
and things like that, are more susceptible,
are really the susceptibles.
If a person who is mad and lunatic, and the
husband or wife of such a person has relationship
with him, he can develop multiple sclerosis.
Sahaj Yoga can cure multiple sclerosis.
What we call the Mooladhara Chakra – if
that centre is caught up with other chakras,
one can develop multiple sclerosis.
The way we have been banging ourselves into
the unknown areas, we have really made ourselves
very complicated.
In the scientific field also we have gone
to the other extreme, believing that science
is our own creation, and have created problems
like atomic bomb, that we can see so clearly,
but what we have done to ourselves we cannot
see.
We are not simple people.
Christ has said you have to be like a child
when you want to enter into the Kingdom of
God.
Now some people I’ve found, they thought
by wearing dresses like primitive people they’ll
become simple like primitive – they will
not.
Their brains are modern, how can they become
primitive?
The brain’s all the time thinking, thinking,
thinking, there’s the thought-combustion
going on every minute, every second, every
split of a second.
But even primitive people are not very good
for their ascent.
That’s also a wrong idea.
You have to come to a point of balance where
you have crossed your conditionings and you
have not entered into the ego, which is just
a wee bit of a space.
If you are not too far away it’s all right,
this way or that way.
But if you are too far away from the center
then you are to be brought in.
But what goes in favor of modern times is
that great seekers have taken their birth
on this Earth.
Of course, with other people they have complicated
themselves.
They didn’t keep to their own personality,
to their own understanding.
They got complicated with other people.
Whatever trends came in, whatever things happened,
they did, they are politicians, this that,
or they are, this side, they are belonging
to this cult or that cult and others have
become “club members” – all sorts of
things.
They have not kept their personality, as they
were.
Like Kabir Das has said, “Jaisi kee taisi
rak deeni chadariya,” “As I had this chadar
on my body, I kept it as
it was.”
We have spoilt it, complicated it, it is hooked
to many things.
We have one great advantage that you are great
seekers, very great seekers of ages born.
This is a very big advantage, and is your
seeking only has brought Sahaj Yoga to this
Earth.
But one disadvantage is there, that in these
modern times we have complicated ourselves
too much, because of confusion maybe, or maybe
because of our ego, that we wanted to try
everything and would not listen to anybody
else– “What’s wrong?.”
Whatever it is, we have complicated.
Also, we do not know what diseases are breeding
within us, what is our mental condition.
We do not know how we are placed with ourselves.
That’s how we are complicated.
When Kundalini rises and you get your connection
with the Divine, it does, sorts out things,
it does, no doubt, it will, but you have to
be growing with it.
If you do not grow with that ascent, then
again that small connection that you have
established will break.
Like the roots have reached the source, but
the tree has to grow according to the supply,
understanding: the root has to grow further
too.
That’s how you really establish yourself.
And I really beg of you and ask very humbly,
with great concern, that please don’t have
diffidence about yourself.
You have already created a problem by feeling
guilty thanks to these horrible psychologists
who have given us these ideas.
Don’t have diffidence.
You are seekers of very great quality, no
doubt, but there are complications which can
be sorted out.
You placed yourself away from your being,
and see for yourself that this Spirit is your
being, not that what is complicated, that’s
just the outside, which can be corrected by
Kundalini, by your spiritual power.
You can now correct, you’ll be empowered
with that.
Sahaj Yoga is tremendous.
Those who have established themselves are
tremendous people today in life.
They are enjoying themselves, they are very
happy people, such nice relationships exist
– they are beautiful.
Even whatever I have in England I am very
happy and surprised, I didn’t expect so
much.
They have compassion, they cannot enjoy this
nectar of life alone, and they want you all
to join in with them.
They are here to help you in a very humble
way, as they have been helped.
Gradually it has been built up now, and it
is for you people to understand that so many
human beings that are created will be lost
if they do not enter into the Kingdom of God.
That’s the only purpose of Sahaj Yoga.
As you know, the subject is so vast, knowledge
so great, there’s no end to it.
Whenever you get your realization – I hope
you get it now, today – and when you establish
yourself, you’ll be amazed, you yourself
will become the library of all the knowledges,
because you become that subtle thing which
gives knowledge.
You reach to that absolute point which gives
all the knowledge.
You’ll be able to see which is knowledge,
which is not knowledge.
Your priorities will immediately change because
you will have that light within yourself.
But, as I say, it is a becoming.
I cannot just say that, “All right, you
are realized soul, all right, give five pounds
and you are out.”
It’s not that way, I must tell you.
This is My helplessness to make people understand
that you cannot just become realized souls,
you cannot be certified, it has – it is
a thing that should happen to you, it should
be your own.
That you should be able to maneuver yourself,
you should be able to handle it yourself,
it should be your own power which should express
it.
I just cannot say, “All right, done!
Now you are a member of Sahaj Yoga.”
You cannot.
I must tell you this is the thing which you
should understand; after all you are sensible
people.
You cannot demand it.
Even if you read – but I cannot do it, it
has to happen.
And after it has happened do not take it for
granted.
Be careful about it, I must tell you I have
seen people who just come, get realization
and get lost.
And after five years they appear again, all
tattered and torn, finished.
This is what you have been seeking all your
lives.
And that’s to be achieved.
I’m just here to give you what belongs to
you.
That also I don’t have, I should say, to
give you, it’s within you.
Maybe one candle can enlighten another candle,
that’s all, like a catalyst.
So don’t make your ego stand up, that “Why
You, Mother?”
Of all the things, it’s a thankless job
I must tell you.
It’s a job I have to do.
I do not do it for any thanks.
I just do it because I have to do it, that’s
My nature.
I cannot get over My nature.
There’s no quarrel between you and Me at
all, in no way.
I am here just to give you what you have.
You can’t pay Me, you should not feel bad
about it.
You cannot overpower Me nor will I overpower
you.
It’s a relationship, as a candle or a light
has to the hand.
It’s just to help you to find your way.
I hope in these modern ideas I will be able
to give you this queer thing, because people
can’t understand.
I was amazed; I didn’t know this was so.
They can’t understand that anything can
work out without money, that there can be
something like love for love’s sake.
Everybody loves for something.
They can’t understand a madwoman like Me
who just loves because She loves, She can’t
help it otherwise.
People don’t believe in such people.
They just can’t imagine such a thing.
But we have so many people who have gone,
who did this for you.
Though they are in the history, but they are
not lost.
There could be someone like that, and maybe
that all of you are going to be that very
soon!
That must happen to all of you.
Thank you very much.
Now I would like to spend some time with questioning,
but not too much, and there was a suggestion
that if realization is given like that, which
is a easy thing for Me, somehow, then people
don’t value the realization.
So it should be given after two -three meetings.
Then they will value it better, because according
to people who give Me suggestions, they understand
human beings better than I do.
If you give them realization then just they
start living in the air, and then they don’t
want to do anything about it till they really
touch the grounds.
I still believe in your sanity, in your wisdom,
in your fairness to yourself, and to your
Creator.
So I still feel that you should get your realization
today.
But that doesn’t mean that you are going
to leave it.
You have to follow it up, work it out.
That doesn’t mean you have to give any more
money or anything, it doesn’t mean at all.
It doesn’t mean anything more than establishing
it, understanding it, “What is this that
we have got?
What is this power?”
Now, can we have some questions?
Yes, please?
Man (not very clear): And when did You know
that it’s hard getting people.
Shri Mataji: Me?
Man: Yes, You.
Shri Mataji: I knew from – since long.
I’m quite old, you know, ancient.
But, about Me I don’t want to say much,
as a matter of policy, you better find out
gradually.
Because if I say anything people don’t like
it.
That’s a fact, whatever I am I am, but I
dare not say, people don’t like it.
You see it’s a funny world.
Is better that you see for yourself and know
Me.
What did Christ say?
What He said is absolute truth.
He said that He was the Son of God.
We can establish it through Sahaj Yoga you
will know that He was the Son of God.
It was a fact and it was the truth; what He
said was true.
If He had not said that, it was not true.
So they crucified Him, tortured Him.
What did Mohammed say?
What did Nanaka say?
Nothing to harm you, just to help you, because
they could see much more than you can see.
But nobody liked it.
If you tell a hot-tempered, blind man that,
“I can see the red color and yellow color
and blue color,” he’ll bang you, he just
can’t bear it.
But that’s no point of superiority or anything,
is kind, is that, that you have it within
you.
It’s your own; I’m again saying it’s
your own.
So, about Me, less said the better.
Because supposing I say something about Myself,
why should you accept also?
If I say, “I am the Governor,” will you
accept Me?
You will not.
I know you will not.
All right.
You may, but even if you accept, what happens?
You don’t get your realization by accepting
that position.
Whatever I say you need not accept as I said,
but you should not close your mind.
Get your realization first.
Your hands must speak, and then you will know
what I am, Who am I, how do I know?
All about Me you will know yourself.
All right?
That’s a promise.
Woman [INDISTINCTLY]: …If we get realization…
[UNCLEAR]…you have to establish it.
How do we have to establish it?
Shri Mataji: That we will tell you.
First realization has to take place and then
gradually we will tell you because your hands
will speak.
You will know what’s happening to you; where
are the problems, on what centers – ss you
can see clearly there – what are the problems.
You will know what chakras are caught up,
what is the blockade [PREVIOUS WORD & ITS
REPEATS SOUND LIKE: “Blockit”], where
is your blockade?
Then also you will now how to clear the blockade,
then you will also know how to move your Kundalini
yourself.
You will also know how to give realizations
to others.
Just after realization you can even cure people,
immediately you can start curing.
But that’s not much.
After establishment you can give realization
to people.
And how to establish, everything is told,
free again.
Because here only thing that is working out
is the concern, nothing else.
So how to establish, everything will be told.
Now for example, we have books, but we don’t
give it to people who are not yet realized
properly.
You have to go from one stage to another a
little bit.
But it’s not even like a regular course.
So there is no course in the living things,
but as you see, first the seed sprouts, and
then the seedlings are taken and established,
and then they become into tree, and then grown
properly.
First they are protected and then they are
exposed to nature.
In the same way, you’ll be very carefully
established, and you will yourself know that
you are getting established.
You will certify yourself; I don’t have
to say anything.
All right?
Man [INDISTINCT]:I’ve been thinking now,
after getting your realization, you have to
be in contact with people who can, who run
a course formally…?
Shri Mataji: No, it’s not a training, but
you have to contact, the contact with the
Divine has to be kept, and you will know the
Divine.
The establishment of the contact you will
feel through cool breeze blowing into your
hands, through your fingers getting sensitive
and you can feel which chakras are catching.
And to keep that contact you have to keep
contact with other people who know about it.
And they will tell you how they have done
it.
Then you yourself can go and do this work
yourself on your own.
I went to Vancouver and people got realization,
many people got it.
There was nobody who would tell them, and
I was there only for a day.
So we sent somebody from Australia, she went
there on her own.
She has created a beautiful center in Vancouver
and now we have one in Toronto[Mother actually
says “Toranto”] also.
Only one person.
There’s one person who must have given realization
to at least ten thousand people in India,
who got realization.
First you have to get your realization, mature,
establish, then you yourself can do it.
You become the master, a perfect master to
do it.
All capabilities are within you.
You do not know what you are, how God has
made you so beautifully.
Lady: will it take a very long time?
Shri Mataji: Beg pardon?
Lady: Will is it take long?
Shri Mataji: I didn’t follow you.
Lady (louder): Will it take long?
Shri Mataji: It may take a split of a second.
Lady: To establish?
Shri Mataji: It doesn’t take too long, I
don’t think – yester– today, they were
asking Me, “How much?”
I said “Three weeks is the maximum.”
Should be, after realization three weeks should
be maximum to establish, according to My own
judgment so far.
But in the beginning, I shouldn’t say – that
might upset you.
It took really four years to struggle with
six of them.
Now it’s not so difficult.
Now we can manage many permutations and combinations
of problems, quite easily.
Don’t worry about time, just don’t worry.
It’s beyond time.
All right?
Man: What is the flower of India?
Shri Mataji: What is it?
Man: The flower of India?
Shri Mataji: I didn’t follow.
Various people: Flower…
Shri Mataji: Power?
People: No, flower.
Shri Mataji: What is the flower?
Man: Of India.
Shri Mataji: What is the flower of India?
Man: India, yes.
Shri Mataji: What do you mean?
Man: I, N, D, I, A, what is the flower of
India?
Shri Mataji: What is this question?
Man: Well, that is the question.
Shri Mataji: Well, I’m not talking to you
here, you here as an Indian, is a wrong idea.
Lotus is the flower…
Man: Thank you
Shri Mataji: …we accept as our national
flower, but I’m not an Indian here, I am
a Britisher, all right?
Out and out.
[man makes indistinct quip].
What is the flower of England?
Man and others: The rose…rose.
Shri Mataji: That’s wrong, it should be
daisy
[Some laughter from the audience and then
the man says indistinctly [SOUNDS LIKE: “there’s
a long, long take that back.”]
Shri Mataji: On a very subtle way it should
be a daisy, because England is the heart of
the universe, and heart resides in the Sahasrara,
and Sahasrara is not like a rose, it is like
a daisy.
Have you had any experience of the daisies
that are coming out these days in England,
they have tremendous fragrance.
Rose may be, because you had Wars of Roses
or something like that, but rose is not your
flower.
They misunderstood, I think.
Daisy everywhere – all kinds, all types,
all colors, beautiful!
All right?
Man: – When achieving your realization,
is it necessary to give up anything?
Shri Mataji: I think you better tell Me here,
I just, you know I can’t understand at this
point.
Another man: He’s asking, is it necessary
to give up anything in order to achieve realization?
Shri Mataji: No, nothing.
You see, we give up something because we have
an idea we’re holding onto something, you
see.
But when you discover you are holding on to
nothing, is just given up as such.
Like some people came to Me, said “Mother
You are living in a family life, and how do
You say that, You have something to do with
Divine?”
I said “Why?.”
He said, “What have you given up?”
I said “What have you given up yourself?”
They said “We have given up our families,
we have given up carpets and houses and this
and that.”
I said “Really?
Now can you take away anything from this house
which is equal to the dust of the Lotus Feet
of your Lord?
Take away, anything.”
He couldn’t find anything, just looked around.
I said “That should be at least equal to
the dust.”
When you are not holding on to anything, what
is there to give up?
The whole attitude becomes detached.
You don’t “give up,” but you see, like
the drama finishes off.
In the drama you are crying, weeping, with
the hero you become Napoleon, sometimes killing
people and banging, then suddenly you discover
the drama is over.
“Now, oh God!
I was just playing this role of Napoleon,
while I was just watching the drama.”
Automatically this myth of involvement dissolves,
all right?
So you don’t give up anything, you just
see it.
What is there to give up?
[Indistinct question about giving up alcohol]
Shri Mataji: What is it?
Lady: He doesn’t want to give up alcohol,
Mother.
Shri Mataji: Give up the?
Woman: Alcohol.
Shri Mataji: No, no, never!
Did I say so?
I’m sorry for that.
(laughter) Did I say in My lecture that you
give up alcohol?
I never said so, but it
happens – they just give up (laughter).
I didn’t say so.
All right?
It just happens.
I don’t say – never say that.
You mean to say I don’t want you to be realized?
To say such a thing?
I never said “don’t do it.”
I’ve finished with Ten Commandments now.
Nothing, it just happens, you become Ten Commandments
yourself.
You just become.
Then, even if I ask you, you will say “Mother,
no, no, no.”
Because when you will get the highest you
don’t want anything else.
Why do we drink, you know?
We are bored stiff with life.
We don’t drink because we want to run an
industries of drinking, do we?
[END OF RECORDING]